Desktop developer docs update (#973)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/contribute/desktop/debugging.md

weight: 3
---

## Debugging in the Main Process

> The simplest way to debug the main process is to simply insert logging statements wherever needed and having the application output logs of whatever is necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest way to debug the main process is to simply insert logging statements wherever needed and have the application output logs of whatever is necessary.
```

> If you'd like to make use of better debugging tools, you can make use of the Chrome Dev Tools or the debugger in VSCode by following the steps here: https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/tutorial/debugging-main-process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to make use of better debugging tools, you can use the Chrome Dev Tools or the debugger in VSCode by following the steps here: https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/tutorial/debugging-main-process
```

## Debugging in the Renderer Process

The renderer processes are controller by Chrome instances, so each of them will have their own Developer Tools instance.

> You can access these instances by going to the View menu (under the 3-dot menu on Windows/Linux, and in the top bar on macOS) and selecting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access these instances by going to the **View** menu (under the 3-dot menu on Windows/Linux, and in the top bar on macOS) and selecting:
```

- **Developer Tools for Application Wrapper** for anything involving the top bar.
- **Developer Tools for Current Tab** for anything involving the Mattermost view or the preload script

>     - *Note:* for this one you need to make sure you're currently on the tab you want to load the Developer Tools for. You can have instances of the tools open for tabs you aren't currently viewing, but to open them in the first place requires it to be opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Note:** For this one, make sure you're currently on the tab where you want to load the Developer Tools. You can have instances open for tabs you aren't currently viewing, but to open them in the first place requires it to be opened.
```

Reviewer: I'm struggling a bit with parsing this sentence: "You can have instances open for tabs you aren't currently viewing, but to open them in the first place requires it to be opened." The first part is clear; the second part is less clear.

There are other `BrowserViews` that are governed seperately from the main application wrapper, including:
- Dropdown Menu
    - You can open this one by adding a line in the `main/teamDropdownView.ts` file. In the constructor, at the end, add:
        ```js
        this.view.webContents.openDevTools({mode: 'detach'});
        ```
- Modals
    - You can open these by setting an environment variable when running the Desktop App called `MM_DEBUG_MODALS`.
        ```
        // macOS/Linux
        export MM_DEBUG_MODALS=1

        // Windows PowerShell
        $env:MM_DEBUG_MODALS = 1
        ```
- URL View
    - You can open this one by adding a line in the `main/viewManager.ts` file. In the function `showURLView`, at the end, add:
        ```js
        urlView.webContents.openDevTools({mode: 'detach'});
        ```

>     - *Note:* This view is ephemeral based on whether a link is hovered with the mouse, so it might be best to use some logging instead here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Note:** This view is ephemeral and based on whether a link is hovered with the mouse, so it might be best to use some logging instead here.
```

> ## Debugging the Mattermost Server/Webapp

Reviewer 2: What is the best next step if the person is still uncertain about which Mattermost component the issue is in? I think I've seen elsewhere that the best place to report issues that someone is uncertain about to the Server repo. Is this the best solution here?

Author: Yeah I think that would make the most sense. Will add a bit for that :)

Some issues are only reproducible on the Desktop App, though the code that is causing the issue may not live in the Desktop App.

> Some ways of determining if this is true are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some ways of determining whether this is true:
```

weight: 3
---

## Debugging in the Main Process

The simplest way to debug the main process is to simply insert logging statements wherever needed and have the application output logs of whatever is necessary.

If you'd like to make use of better debugging tools, you can use the Chrome Dev Tools or the debugger in VSCode by following the steps here: https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/tutorial/debugging-main-process

## Debugging in the Renderer Process

The renderer processes are controller by Chrome instances, so each of them will have their own Developer Tools instance.

You can access these instances by going to the **View** menu (under the 3-dot menu on Windows/Linux, and in the top bar on macOS) and selecting:
- **Developer Tools for Application Wrapper** for anything involving the top bar.

> - **Developer Tools for Current Tab** for anything involving the Mattermost view or the preload script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Developer Tools for Current Tab** for anything involving the Mattermost view or the preload script.
```

        this.view.webContents.openDevTools({mode: 'detach'});
        ```
- Modals
    - You can open these by setting an environment variable when running the Desktop App called `MM_DEBUG_MODALS`.
        ```
        // macOS/Linux
        export MM_DEBUG_MODALS=1

        // Windows PowerShell
        $env:MM_DEBUG_MODALS = 1
        ```
- URL View
    - You can open this one by adding a line in the `main/viewManager.ts` file. In the function `showURLView`, at the end, add:
        ```js
        urlView.webContents.openDevTools({mode: 'detach'});
        ```
    - **Note:** This view is ephemeral and based on whether a link is hovered with the mouse, so it might be best to use some logging instead here.

## Debugging the Mattermost Server/Webapp

Some issues are only reproducible on the Desktop App, though the code that is causing the issue may not live in the Desktop App.

Here are some ways of determining whether this is true:
- Does the issue reproduce on the browser? Specifically Chrome?
- Does the issue surround a piece of code on the server/webapp that only applies to the Desktop App? You can check this by seeing if there is a call to `isDesktopApp` in the webapp.

> If you have determined that the issue does not apply to the Desktop App code base directly, you can file a ticket in the appropriate repository, such as the [server](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server) or [webapp](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have determined that the issue doesn't apply to the Desktop App code base directly, you can file a ticket in the appropriate repository, such as the [server](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server) or [webapp](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp) repository.
```
